# MemeCraft

A brief description of what the project does.

## Installation
First, install the dependencies:
- git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers
- tokenizers==0.13.3
- ipywidgets
- openai
- accelerate==0.20.3 
- torch==2.0.1
- nltk
- protobuf==3.20.*
- langdetect
- requests urllib
- gensim==3.8.0
- scikit-learn==0.22
- spherecluster
- numpy==1.23.5

## Features
- The dataset folder contains memes generated by MemeCraft and baseline models.
- The script folder houses Python code for extracting text descriptions, generating meme text and detect hateful memes.

## Usage
1. [vlm_text_description_generation.py] - Extracts text descriptions.
2. [llm_meme_text_generation.py] and [vlm_meme_text_generation.py] - Generate contextual meme text using LLM or VLM. [prompt_demonstration.py] - Prompt demonstration examples.
3. [text_overlay.py] - Overlays text onto meme templates.
4. [hateful_memes_detection.py] - Identifes and excludes hateful memes.

## Citation
@article{hanw2024memecraft,
  author =       {Han wang, Roy Ka-Wei Lee},
  title =        {MemeCraft: Contextual and Stance-Driven Multimodal Meme Generation},
  year =         {2024}
}

@misc{singh2020mmf,
  author =       {Singh, Amanpreet and Goswami, Vedanuj and Natarajan, Vivek and Jiang, Yu and Chen, Xinlei and Shah, Meet and
                 Rohrbach, Marcus and Batra, Dhruv and Parikh, Devi},
  title =        {MMF: A multimodal framework for vision and language research},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/facebookresearch/mmf}},
  year =         {2020}
}

## Contact Information
For questions or feedback, email [han_wang@sutd.edu.sg].
